You guys have a billion monthly active
users. Why is it so freaking hard to
build a durable lasting social consumer
product? So much of consumer technology
focuses on drive product market fit.
People don't spend nearly enough time
thinking about distribution and figuring
out distribution.
>> like Snap has always been punching above
its weight in terms of just how much new
stuff comes out of your team. Stories,
AR glasses, swipe base navigation.
>> We have a very very small design team
that is constantly innovating and and
creating new things.
>> Your first day that you join the design
team, you present work. You're making
things. If you want to have a good idea,
you have to have lots of ideas.
>> People copy you. As a human, how does it
feel just to see this consistently
happen?
>> 15 years ago, we essentially learned
that software is not a moat, which is
something that everyone is discovering
today with AI.
>> You describe this coming year as the
crucible moment. It's a real turning
point.
>> We're in an industry where so much of
the conversation is focused on
technology, humanity is far more
important. Because humanity dictates how
technology is adopted. Technology
leaders think that folks will just
blindly adopt new technology as it comes
out. There's going to be a huge amount
of societal pushback on a lot of the
changes that are coming with AI.
Today my guest is Evan Spiegel, CEO and
co-founder of Snap. Evan is one of the
very few humans in the world who has
successfully built and scaled a lasting
consumer social app. In the 15 years
since Snapchat launched, there are
essentially zero social consumer apps
that have launched and stuck around.
Snapchat has over 1 billion monthly
active users, is generating over $6
billion a year in revenue. People post
over 8 billion AR lens photos a day on
Snapchat. And over the years, Evan and
his team have invented the concept of
stories. They had the first AR glasses
product in the market. They invented
swipe base navigation, the camera being
primary. And also back in the day, face
swapping, making people look older, and
so many of the things that are just
copied throughout the entire industry.
If this is truly the golden age of
consumer products, like many people say
AI is going to enable, there's a lot
that we can learn about how Evan and his
team think and operate and are able to
continue innovating. This is a rare
podcast interview with Evan and we cover
a lot of ground. Before we get into it,
don't forget to check out Lenny's
Product Pass .com for a year free of the
hottest and most well-crafted AI
products in the world available
exclusively to Lenny's Newsletter
subscribers. With that, I bring you Evan
Spiegel.
Evan, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Thank you so
much. Thanks for having me. I'm looking
forward to I want to start with just
trying to understand and help people
understand why is it so freaking hard to
build a durable lasting consumer product
and in particular a social consumer
product. And just to give people this
context, I don't think people realize
this, but since you launched 15 years
ago, there's basically a TikTok, which
is not really social, it's more like a
media platform I'd say, and then maybe
Threads, which I think is cheating cuz
it just sits on top of Instagram.
Basically, nothing else has worked other
than Snapchat 15 years ago.
And in spite of everyone just like
everyone innately just wants to build a
consumer product social app, it's just
like where everyone first goes,
everybody fails. Nothing works.
Why is it so hard? What do you think
people don't get?
>> Well, I think it's really interesting,
you know, in terms of the examples that
you just shared, right? Of of TikTok and
and Threads cuz you you just shared two
examples of people who figured out
distribution. And I think that that's
actually one of the hardest things to
figure out in consumer technology today.
We were so fortunate when we created
Snapchat, the mobile phone, you know,
and the App Store were just getting
started. So, people were downloading
lots of new apps all the time. They were
really excited about trying new uh
services. You know, Instagram, I think
it started a year before Snapchat or
something like that. So, there was a
real appetite to try new apps and new
services. And And that's not the case
today. It's a lot harder to get
distribution for new ideas and new
services. People aren't downloading as
many apps now as they used to. And both
TikTok and Threads figured out
distribution, which is why I think
they're more recent examples of success.
TikTok did it with money, uh which I
actually thought was really innovative.
Uh they spent billions of dollars
subsidizing both sides of their video
marketplace, right? Acquiring customers
to watch videos and then paying creators
to make videos. And so, they were able
to bootstrap, uh you know, their their
ecosystem. And I think with Threads,
obviously, they were able to leverage
the amazing distribution uh that Meta
has across all of their other products.
So, I I think so much of consumer
technology focuses on, you know, am I
building the right product? Do I have
product market fit? Have I, you know,
built something that's really going to
resonate uh with customers that they're
really going to want to use all the
time? And I think people don't spend
nearly enough time thinking about, you
know, distribution and figuring out
distribution. And that seems to me uh to
be a huge differentiator. So, I You
know, as I reflect on the early days of
building Snapchat,
the thing that we figured out in terms
of distribution, especially when it
comes to social, was that, you know,
back then people believed that uh there
was there were network effects in social
networks that meant that the more people
you had using the service, the stickier
that it is, right? And so, there was no
way to beat the biggest networks because
those were the most valuable. And what
Snapchat figured out that was, I think,
different was that, you know, despite
the fact that there were much bigger
networks that connected more people,
what really mattered was connecting you
to the right people. And so, if you
could just connect someone not to all
their friends, but to their best friend,
to their partner, to their spouse, the
people that they cared most about in the
world, that that that's where the
majority of the value is in the network.
And so, that's what really allowed us to
grow in those early days. You know, we
we had the benefit of the App Store and
mobile distribution, but we also had a
different way of growing our service,
which wasn't about having the most
friends, it was about having your close
friends. Meta is so interesting. It's
something that I've been thinking a lot
about actually, this idea of
distribution
because of AI. If you think about just
where AI has come into the market, it's
it started originally just like helping
people autocomplete code. It's something
I've been talking a lot on this podcast.
So, it's like, okay, autocomplete code.
Okay, now it's writing all our code.
Okay, now it's reviewing our code, and
now it's testing itself. And now it's
going to help us come up with ideas. So,
it's like starting in the middle of the
product development process and
expanding out.
And I feel like it will be very good at
coming up with great ideas and
developing strategy. Like it's going up
the I don't know, the funnel or the
timeline of building a product. And I
feel like distribution is where it ends
up being
what ends up being the new moat and the
new biggest challenge uh because AI is
not going to really help you there. So,
that's it's really interesting that
that's uh even more so true for consumer
products. Uh I I think that's absolutely
the case. And And the only thing I would
say is, you know, the most exciting
times in technology are when there are
new platforms that get created, and that
tends to be where a lot of the value
comes from. You think about, you know, a
lot of the big consumer technology
companies today, they were really born
out of mobile, right? Whether it, you
know, it's Uber, uh you know, Snapchat,
some of those early generation companies
that that really, you know, got
distribution and built themselves on
mobile. And so, I think as we look
forward to, you know, sort of these next
generation form factors, things like
glasses, there's going to be a whole new
set of opportunities and a whole new
surface for people to build generational
consumer companies. And I'm really
excited about that. Especially if they
have distribution already. Feels like
that's going to be like I'm just worried
for startups. It's going to be very hard
to get distribution just like it's
there's so much launching every day. So
much to pay attention to, and there just
feels very hard for a startup to get any
attention with existing, you know,
against existing incumbents.
This episode is brought to you by our
season's presenting sponsor WorkOS. What
do OpenAI, Anthropic, Cursor, Vercel,
Replit, Sierra, Clay, and hundreds of
other winning companies all have in
common, they are all powered by WorkOS.
If you're building a product for the
enterprise, you felt the pain of
integrating single sign-on, SCIM, RBAC,
audit logs, and other features required
by large companies. WorkOS turns those
deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a
modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SaaS. Literally
every startup that I'm an investor in
that starts to expand upmarket ends up
working with WorkOS. And that's because
they are the best. Whether you are a
seed-stage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, WorkOS is the
fastest path to becoming
enterprise-ready and unblocking growth.
It's essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack where
they have actual engineers waiting to
answer your questions. WorkOS allows you
to build faster with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to workos.com
to make your app enterprise-ready today.
Something that has always been really
interesting to me about Snapchat is it
feels like you guys have just innovated
so much over the years. You guys
basically just invent all the things.
Uh people copy you.
Benefit greatly from it and it's just
kind of uh wild to watch and just like a
few examples that come to mind. Uh
stories, you guys created uh you were
very early on AR glasses. You guys
launched Spectacles before Meta got into
the stuff.
Uh swipe-based navigation, I think you
guys started. The idea of holding to do
a video versus a photo. There's probably
a bunch. Uh first of all, what's the
next thing someone's going to steal, do
you think? Oh, gosh. Well, I just uh I I
just saw Instagram Plus launch. So, I
think that's the latest rip. Uh you
know, Which is a subscription.
Yeah, I think you know, we just hit 25
million subscribers on Snapchat Plus,
more than a billion revenue run rate.
So, was I think probably enough to get
Meta's attention that it's a good time
to to copy. And then they and the plus,
he's just even taking the plus
as the name. Oh my god.
Let me just ask you like as a as a
human, how does it What does it How does
it feel just to see this consistently
happen to you? You guys come up with
something awesome.
Someone rips it off, benefits hugely
from it, and you just have to keep doing
that again and again. You know, it it's
certainly better than making stuff that
people don't want to copy. So, I think
uh you know, in in many ways it's a
blessing that we've been able to
continue to innovate, to make new things
that really resonate with folks, and
that ultimately people want to end up uh
you know, copying uh from from Snap. So,
I I think it certainly beats the the
alternative, but it does uh you know,
mean that we have to be really
thoughtful about our strategy. And so, I
think you know, one of the things it's
it's been an it's been an interesting
time for me to reflect a lot on you
know, our strategy over the last 15
years because, you know, 15 years ago we
essentially learned that software is not
a moat, right? Which is something that
everyone is discovering today with AI,
right? But 15 years ago, because all the
software features uh that we could
create were so easily cloned by our
competitors, we started to think about
how to build a more durable business,
how to build a business uh you know,
that had bigger and more effective
moats. One of the first things we did
was focus a lot uh on on building
ecosystems, right? Whether those are,
you know, the relationships between
creators and Snapchatters, whether
that's the platform we built around
augmented reality where, you know,
developers have built millions of these
lenses. Uh so, it's it's very easy to
copy hardware you know, software
features, it's very hard
uh to to copy or to to rep a data of a
full ecosystem or a platform. Um and so,
you know, we we realized that the the
more that we could build a platform uh
around our business, the more that we
could build an ecosystem with creators
and developers, the harder it would be
for folks uh to to just copy that. And
then it also informed a lot of our
thinking about investing in other places
that are really hard to copy, including
hardware, uh where it's really, really
challenging um you know, to copy our our
fully vertically integrated stack around
augmented reality. So, I'm certain
certain there's a lot more to talk about
uh
there, but I think, you know, we learned
early on that software is easy to copy,
and so it's really important to build
more durable modes. That's really
interesting hearing
hearing this from you, and I was going
to get to this later, but we can talk
about this now. This big investment
you've been putting into hardware. Like,
you would think network effects would be
the moat. That's what everybody's always
trying to
uh get to because that's uh classically
a great moat.
Are you saying that that's maybe not
even as great a moat, or that's just not
enough, and then you need something more
like, say, hardware? I I don't I think
network effects are certainly an
important piece of the puzzle for sure,
um but I don't think they're enough when
it comes to these sorts of software uh
you know, software cloning. And so, you
know, despite the fact that we've got a
ton of patents, and we protected all
these ideas, the way that it works in in
software is that it's quite easy uh you
know, for folks to copy or iterate on
top of these ideas. And so, I think in
addition to network effects, it's really
important uh to try to build, you know,
businesses that are more defensible by
by truly building out of a platform that
can support relationships between
creators, developers, and the community
because that that in and of itself we
found is incredibly difficult to copy.
That's so interesting. Like, if you
think about it, you you're working on
two of the hardest types of businesses.
Like, consumer social
platform and hardware.
Uh and I love that you're doing that. Uh
and this hardware investment you've been
at it for a long time. There you had
Spectacles, you had drones. I don't
think people remember you had this drone
that could take photos of you. And then
you have Specs coming out. Is it Specs
or Spectacles the name of what's coming
out today, by the way? Uh Specs is
coming out this year. Okay, cool. We're
going to talk about it, but just uh
maybe you've already answered it why
this is something you're so passionate
about, but why why this kind of ongoing
investment in in hardware? Well, I think
to like take a huge step back, um
I love computers. I grew up uh using
computers all the time. I built my own
computer when I was in middle school. Uh
you know, I fell in love with graphic
design, and would spend like every lunch
period in the computer lab. And I think
one of the things that I noticed about
computers and I think today with mobile
phones,
uh is that in many ways they isolate us
from one another, right? They actually
take us out of our social interactions.
They took me off the, you know,
playground at recess and, you know, you
know, put me into the the computer lab
or, you know, if I look at our
15-year-old today and his friends,
right? You know, sometimes when they're
hanging out, they're all looking down at
their phones, even though they're all
together. And so, I think there's just
such a big opportunity to build
technology that actually brings us
together, that keeps us grounded in the
real world, rather than, you know,
removing us from it. And that's
something that we realized early on with
Snapchat, right? We were innovating,
building, you know, lenses in augmented
reality, but ultimately we saw that
people were using AR on these tiny
little phone screens, right? That
required you to you to use your thumbs
to interact. Uh and so, you know, it's
almost like interacting with the world
through like a keyhole, you know, rather
than actually staying grounded and being
able to interact together with friends.
it just seems so obvious that like as
computers play a bigger and bigger role
in our lives, you know, I think today
people spend 7 or 8 hours a day on
average on screens, that like something
has got to change to to make this
technology fit better into our lives,
right? We get enormous value from
computers, but at the same time I think
the cost is is quite meaningful. And and
I think um
you know, they need to evolve. So, you
know, with the early with the early
version of of Spectacles, I guess that
was back in 2014 or something like that,
you know, the initial idea was just to
get the camera off the phone, right? Out
of your pocket and, you know, allow you
to more easily, you know, take snaps out
in the world. Um but we then sort of
built a road map from there, right?
Where we added a second camera to get
depth, we added a display to be able to
overlay,
you know, digital objects into the world
and help you interact with them. And
then with the last generation in 2024,
we released the the our operating
system, which now allows uh developers
to build full-featured software uh
inside of uh Specs, you know, in in
preparation for the the consumer
uh launch. So, I don't know. I think the
time is right for a new a new type of
computer. I think people are frustrated
um, you know, with the cost of using
phones and computers today. They're kind
of all hunched over like Gremlins. And,
you know, we can build uh a a new
computer. We have built a new computer
that brings people outside, that helps
them connect together with their
friends, that frees them up to actually
use their hands uh to interact with the
world and and uh you know, that to me is
really exciting. I think it's it's a
whole new chapter. And, gosh, I mean,
what? It's been 20 years or something
since the the iPhone. So, it's it's
about time for something new, I think.
So, I got a early preview of the Specs,
and it's extremely cool. Uh I learned
how to be an airbender.
I put uh plants all over my house, uh
drawing all over the place. And, it's
And, there's multiplayer features, which
is very cool, which I think is part of
the idea, right? Is you're connecting
with people versus sitting like a VR
environment on on your own.
Like, I worry about that being connected
all the time. So, I imagine that's like
a new thing we have to figure out. How
do we not just get hooked on just
watching things out of the side instead
of looking at something we're with? Uh
do you have any I thoughts there? Just
like, is there a solution to that other
than just like social norms? I I do
think social norms will play a a big
role. But, I also think one of the
things people experience with AR, you
know,
Specs, unlike you know, these heads-up
display glasses, they don't just put an
annoying like, you know, little screen
that's stuck to your face uh on the
glasses. They actually like anchor
content in the world, um which is really
different, right? They they um, you
know, put put that content directly in
your field of view rather than requiring
you to like look down at some little
screen or like get some text alert or
notification. So, I think, you know,
frankly, I I don't think those use cases
are very compelling. Like, I don't think
receiving phone notifications on your
face is like, you know, a a valuable,
you know, proposition for most folks.
So, I don't think we necessarily have to
worry about that cuz I think most people
don't want that. I think like what is
going to be really important with Specs
is showing people all the incredible new
ways they can hang out and connect
together with their friends wearing
wearing Specs. Um but I I don't think
it'll be, you know, disruptive or
notification based or something like
that. One of the things that I really
dislike about the heads-up display
glasses is when you're looking at the
little, you know, heads-up display in
the corner, you're actually looking at
your like your friend's crotch, you
know, while you're talking to them if
you check the heads-up display. So, the
position is just very strange and I I
don't think that that's something that
really is resonating uh with customers
nor do I think that's something that's
going to become like a widespread, you
know, behavior. I want to go back to
this idea of how um how to innovate.
I feel like Snap has always been
punching above its weight in terms of
just how much new uh stuff comes out of
your team.
How many like inventions happen
considering the size of it of the
company and the and the history.
What do you find is needs to be true for
innovation to happen? What What do you
What do you do to allow for all these
great ideas to emerge? The The best sort
of like academic overview or summary, I
think, comes from a guy Safi Bahcall who
wrote a book called Loonshots.
It's really worth reading. It's all
about the innovation process and
actually when I read it, I was like, "Oh
my gosh, that kind of explains a lot of
how we think about innovation at at
Snap." And
I think to summarize the academic
version, we can talk about like what
we've developed and built at Snap. But
like to summarize,
you know, essentially his findings are
that, you know,
basically, if you want to deliver a
product at scale, you usually need quite
a large organization. A large
organization needs hierarchy and
structure, a lot of operational rigor.
Uh and as soon as you have an
organization that's very large and very
structured like that, uh people become
very focused on getting a promotion,
right? Getting, you know, into the next
step of the hierarchy. And that means
that all of a sudden, uh they become a
lot more risk-averse. They're not really
as willing to try new things. They're
very focused on, you know, achieving the
the goals that have sort of been set for
them in this operational hierarchy. And
that is That makes it very, very
challenging to innovate. Now, on the
flip side, you know, structures that are
are really healthy and constructive for
innovation, you know, typically are
very, very flat, right? Uh that's the
same for our design team, for example,
where there's no one that has a fancier
title or a role. Uh there's a lot of
flexibility in terms of the ability to
try new things and fail quickly and put
up, you know, crazy ideas. And and, you
know, what what he basically finds is
that the companies that are very
successful actually have both types of
organizations inside their company. And
that the leaders of the organization are
the ones who are responsible for
creating a healthy, functioning
relationship between the two types of
organizations. Because what ends up
happening in a lot of companies is that,
you know, the small innovative team
becomes critical of the large, you know,
organization. Oh, they're so
bureaucratic and slow. They don't
innovate, you know, things like that.
And then the, you know, the the large
organization is like, oh, you know, what
are these jokers doing, you know, just
innovating? They're not really driving
the business. They're not supporting our
customers. And so a lot of tension
actually arises from the different
organizational structures. And so, the
leadership responsibility, and I think,
you know, Safi does a really good job
looking throughout history what leaders
have cultivated really constructive and
powerful relationships between, you
know, the more in it, you know,
innovative or flat parts of the
organization and the more structural,
you know, structured and and
hierarchical parts of the organization.
You know, how you create that mutual
respect, how you create that dialogue
between those parts of the organization
is so important. And so, you know, when
I read that, I was like, wow, that that
actually sounds quite similar to what we
have at at Snap. You know, we have to
run a large public company, serve almost
a billion customers. That means, you
know, our service needs to be really
reliable. And it it means that we need
to operate, you know, really, really
effectively uh to serve our customers.
and at the same time we have a very,
very small, you know, it sort of
oscillates between like nine and 12
people design team um that is constantly
innovating and and creating new things.
And I think, you know, the beauty of of
what I love about Snap is that the
dialogue between those two teams is
where a lot of that innovation happens
because a lot of our engineers, you
know, working to serve our customers or
working on reliability have a bunch of
great ideas and so do our designers and
as long as they're in dialogue, um you
know, really great things can happen.
There's someone, I forget who who this
was, but they described this approach as
the fast thinking and slow thinking part
of the organization, kind of like
Kahneman's system one, system two
approach.
It's interesting the fast moving, let's
say. What do you What do you kind of
call this this in- innovation team or
what Do you have a label for this like,
let's come up with the new ideas part of
the org? Well, I think it's really
important to acknowledge that like new
ideas come from everywhere and we want
that, but I think the design team in
particular, it's really important we
call it the design team. Like it's
really important that they have a flat,
non-hierarchical structure, you know,
where new ideas can can come from
anywhere. I mean, I think that that that
is absolutely critical. So, in terms of
how you operationalize this, is that the
key to the innovation you've seen as
this like specific small design team
who uh can work like talk about just how
you actually operationalize this sort of
way of working? Yeah, I mean, I I think
it's an important part of it, but a lot
of how we built Snap was modeled
actually on mine and Bobby's original
relationship, right? Where like Bobby,
you know, has a computer science, uh you
know, heavy duty computer science and
stats background, you know, mathematical
and computational science, but he really
likes design and likes thinking about uh
you know, building things for customers
and empathizing with them. I have a
design background, right? I was in, you
know, in the product design program at
back at school, which actually was like
part of the mechanical engineering
department at the time. I took some
computer science classes. Um so, I, you
know, sort of kind of under- you know,
uh you know, knew what I was talking
about when it came to computer science.
So, we both like had mutual respect for
each other and our skill sets and our
backgrounds and both enjoyed talking
together about the the the types of
products we wanted to create and that
dialogue created, you know, a lot of
innovation. And so, a lot of how we've
thought about growing the company over
time is like strengthening that dialogue
between engineers and designers and
creating, you know, an environment
where, you know, folks feel comfortable
throwing out really crazy ideas. But, I
think you know, for the design team in
particular, the thing that is probably
most important is the velocity of design
work. So, I typically meet with our
designers for a couple hours every week
and we just look at work. I mean, new
work every week, you know, hundreds of
ideas I would guess, you know, on a on a
weekly basis. That, you know, to me, you
know, if if I think about um
where I learned how to to design and and
build things, I have sort of an
interesting combination because, you
know, I I went to to Stanford for the
product design program, which is really
focused on empathy, right? In this
iterative process of understanding what
people want and building prototypes and
and iterating, but really centered on on
empathy, right? Human-centered design.
And then at the same time I'd also been
to art school. So, I'd studied at Art
Center, I'd studied at Otis here in Los
Angeles, both, you know, great art
schools. And so, I was used to this like
grinding,
you know, expectation that you're making
new work all the time and then just an
absolutely brutal critique process, you
know, on a regular basis. And so, you
know, for me as I thought about, you
know, the the parts of my education that
I really liked, it was this combination
of really developing empathy with people
and what, you know, the types of
products that they want in their lives,
but at the same time having this really
high velocity, you know, work ethic
where you're not just like thinking, you
know, all the time about, you know, new
new products, you're actually making
stuff every week all the time and then
you're talking about it as a team Uh,
that critique process is where so much
of the learning uh, sort of happens. So,
you know, I'd say that the velocity of
work uh, you know, is really important
because our favorite saying is, you
know, if you want to have a good idea,
you have to have lots of ideas. That
that's really, really important. I just
had Keith Rabois on the podcast. I don't
know if you know this about his uh, he
has many contrarian takes. Uh, one is if
you're building a consumer product, do
not talk to customers. Like not only is
it not useful, his advice is it's
harmful because it can infiltrate your
subconscious and it just doesn't lead to
great things. What's your perspective on
that? Wow, that that's really
interesting. Um, I would say uh, you
have to talk to customers. You have to
share your idea. You should share your
ideas quickly as possible, as frequently
as possible. Uh, it doesn't mean you
need to take people's advice or
feedback, but it's really important, I
think, to listen. And and I think for
me, you know, it's you know, it's not
like the survey model of listening. I
don't think that's particularly helpful.
But I think going deep and talking with
someone for an hour, 2 hours about how
do they use technology? How does it fit
in their lives? How do they feel about,
you know, the products they're using?
You can learn so much. And I think, you
know, customers are an endless source of
inspiration
um,
when it comes to building products. So,
you're pro pro talking to to users cuz I
feel like you've been really good at
just like here's what it'll be and
here's how it should be. And even though
people may not understand this is what
it should be, I trust me, it'll work
really well. What's that balance of just
like here's how much how what I'll pay
attention to, here's what I won't. Well,
let let's use stories as an example,
right? So, you know, back then, we were
hearing from customers all the time, I
want to send all button. I want to send
all button. You know, it's so annoying
to select everybody on my list of
friends in Snapchat. If you just give me
a send all button, then I can blast
snaps to everybody all day long and
that'd be really great.
And at the same time, we were talking to
people about their use of social media,
right? And they're like, "Oh gosh,
social media, I feel all this pressure,
right? Everything I put up there is
permanent all the time. Uh, you know,
it's got all these likes and comments.
So, there's all this judgment. So, I
only feel like I can put like pretty
imperfect things up there.
Uh you know, and and I I I just don't
like that pressure. That doesn't feel
good. Actually love the way that
Snapchat allows me to just express
myself and and share with my friends
without that that sort of judgment and
and pressure.
And so we we thought that was really
interesting. So you know, we dug deeper
into the you know, how people were using
social media. We found that one of the
things they thought was really weird was
that everything was in reverse
chronological order in the feed. So the
feed back in the day, the timeline,
right? Like you know, when people posted
photos, you know, they would always find
that like the end of the birthday party
appeared first in the feed, right? and
then the middle and then you know, the
beginning of the party. So everything
was was sort of you know, just like
played in reverse in the feed, which was
was really strange
to folks. So
we listened to all of that, right? And
heard all all of that, but then we came
up with something totally new and
different, which were stories, right?
They were responsive to the feedback,
right? They didn't you know, create a
send to all button, but they did create
a way to easily share with all of your
friends without spamming them all day
long. They removed you know, public
metrics. They didn't have you know,
likes and comments and things like that
to to reduce pressure. They disappeared
after 24 hours so that everyone could
start the day fresh again, you know, the
the next day. And they you know, maybe
most importantly were in chronological
order, which is the way that people have
told stories you know, since the since
the beginning of time. So I think that's
an example where like listening is
incredibly valuable. All of those
insights that we you know, received just
from listening to folks made a huge
difference in the product design
process, but we didn't build exactly
what they asked for. We we empathized
and then you know, came up with
something new. And that's such a great
story. I love hearing these stories of
features that everyone's using now and
how they came to be.
Was there was there like a moment of
just like this is the way this this
story concept that you remember or was
it kind of this very gradual evolution?
It was iterative because in a lot of
ways some of the early ideas, you know,
started more around like a status
update, you know, that that was sort of
like you know,
how could you know what your friends on
Snapchat were up to even if you weren't
sending snaps back and forth? And so,
you know, it sort of started there and
then, you know, again, through talking
to people and iterating, understanding
what folks were really looking for, we
ended up, you know, ended up with
stories. And some of the gestures, you
know, that people maybe take for granted
today, being able to tap forward through
stories and backwards through stories,
full screen, right, vertical
content, those were all really new
things at the time. Is there another
story of something that y'all built that
uh
just like was interesting and of how it
came to be? These stories are so
interesting and people don't know these
histories. You know, one of my favorite
stories was around
screenshot detection actually in the
early days because when we first built
Snapchat and we, you know, shared with
people, "Oh, you could send photos to
disappear." Everyone said, "No, you
can't.
You can always take a screenshot. What
do you mean, you can send things to
disappear? That makes no sense." And so,
you know, we we thought a lot. I
remember that summer, you know, after
school, we went home, we're working at
my dad's house and Bobby and I were just
going back and forth and we're like, you
know,
we we were having fun using the product.
We were sending, you know, photos back
and forth, but people would just keep
saying, "Well, this like this just it's
not about disappearing photos cuz you
can just save them. Like I I don't get
it." And and one of the things we
invented that at the time, we figured
out a way, we realized that if you were
pressing and holding to open a snap and
left your finger on the screen and you
took a screenshot, it would basically
trigger,
you know, an event on the phone
essentially that made
the phone would essentially report that
your finger had lost contact with the
screen. Right, that's that's what the
screenshot mechanism did. So, even
though Apple didn't provide an API at
the time to let you know that a
screenshot had been taken, there was a
way for us to essentially detect this
touch event to learn that a screenshot
had happened and then we would just send
a notification back to the sender that,
"Oh, you know, the recipient had had
taken a screenshot." And that for us in
the early days,
you know, really resonated with our
community because they didn't mind if
somebody, you know, saved one of their
snaps. They just wanted them to know.
And I think that that, uh, you know,
that early invention, uh, was one of the
first things that really got a lot of
traction in the early days. And I think,
you know,
helped Snapchat spread as a new way of
of communicating. And that is that is
really cool. I can't imagine Snapchat
existing without you figuring that out.
That feels like such a core mechanic.
Um, something that is also really, I
don't I'd say famous in the PM community
about Snap is you guys waited a long
time to hire product managers. I've done
all these research reports on just like
how long it took the top companies to
hire their PMs. And the number I saw is
you had 200 employees before you hired
your first PM.
I'm curious if you think that was a
mistake waiting that long. And just your
current thoughts on product managers,
just like
how they fit into Snap. A lot of people
listening to this are PMs. And so I'm
just curious how you feel. A lot of my
view of product management was actually
driven by my view of of designers and
the role that designers should play. And
one of the things that I, you know, was
concerned about in the tech community,
you know, if you look at the traditional
tech org org structure, you know,
designers really are producing visuals.
They're not really producing the product
direction or the strategy or the vision
or, you know, net new, uh,
net new innovation, right? They're
really responsive, actually, I think in
many cases to the PM saying, "This is
what we're building. Now go make me some
visuals." And I absolutely did not want
that type of culture to take root.
Because again, as I mentioned, we
modeled a lot of the, you know, the way
that we develop products here at Snap on
that early relationship between myself
and Bobby. Really this, you know, this
harmonious relationship between design
and engineering. And and how important
that is, that dialogue is to to building
great things and great great products.
And so, you know, I think in the early
days, my view was not that we don't need
PMs. My view was that designers should
do that work.
So that's essentially, uh, you know,
what we would say to our designers,
which was like, you know, uh hey, if you
need PM support, why don't you just do
it yourself? What's What's the big deal?
Uh and I think that that really helped,
uh frankly, designers play a more active
role in the product development process.
Now, today, you know, at a company
operating at our scale, you know, if you
look at the legal requirements, the our
approach to trust and safety, um you
know,
it really does take uh a village to get
a new product off the ground, and
product managers play a really important
coordination role in all that, in
addition to synthesizing, for example,
data science uh analysis, and bringing
together the working group to try to
solve problems, or innovate, or make the
product better. So, I think, you know,
as the organization grows, and there
becomes, you know, all of these
different capabilities that the company
didn't have in the early days, you know,
whether it's data science, uh you know,
you name it, product managers play a
really important role in in bringing all
those folks to the table, and and making
sure we deliver,
you know, the right thing at at the
right time.
I am so excited to tell you about this
season's supporting sponsor, Vanta.
Vanta helps over 15,000 companies, like
Cursor, Ramp, Duolingo, Snowflake, and
Atlassian, earn and prove trust with
their customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever,
thanks to AI. But, as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks,
including SOC 2, ISO 27001, and HIPAA.
This helps companies get compliant fast
and stay compliant. More than ever
before, trust has the power to make or
break your business. Learn more at
Vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
Vanta.com/lenny.
There's uh this interesting question
that everyone's asking right now. Marc
Andreessen put it really well when he
was on the pod. There's this kind of
like three-way standoff right now
between PMs, designers, engineers, where
they each think they are the future and
you don't need the other with AI.
And everyone's wondering who's going to
What's the more important core skill?
I imagine your sense is now AI makes
designers even more powerful. And so
this is even more the way to approach.
Talk about just like how you think this
shifts these this triad with AI enabling
people. Well, it sounds highly
dysfunctional if folks are having that
standoff. That is not not a good thing.
Um but I do like uh I do like that
people are thinking about doing work
really differently. I think that's
imperative at this moment of time. The
rate of change is uh extraordinary. I
Look, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I I you know, impact
at, you know, the scale of almost a
billion uh people using Snapchat is
really empowering and exciting uh for
for designers who feel like these tools
um you know,
uh maybe level the playing field to some
extent for for creative people. Yeah,
what I feel like I don't see this
happening yet, but I feel like because
now it's so much easier to build, people
are shipping all these okay things. And
it feels like design should have its
moment in in of glory right now as a
differentiator of like, "Okay, this is
actually awesome." I haven't felt that
yet, and I'm curious if that's what will
begin to happen. Well, I think for us
design actually has always operated as
like a bottleneck at the company, which
is incredibly important, right? It's
intentional that things need to be
approved by design to ship. And
sometimes that really annoys people, you
know, and it does slow down the shipping
process. Sometimes it means that if you
don't know how to work well with design
or get your ideas in front of design
that like some really innovative or cool
new thing developed by, you know, a PM
or developed by an engineer maybe
doesn't get shipped as fast as it
should. But but that bottleneck is
really really important because that's
what results in a cohesive customer
experience. And I think, you know,
I think you can see when an app has been
built by, you know, teams who are
responsible for different, you know,
pages of the app, right? Or different
parts of the experience, but there isn't
really like a cohesive through line. And
I think, you know, for us at at Snap,
you know, having design really actually
be that bottleneck in terms of helping
to, you know, manage what we're shipping
and, you know, what it looks like and
how it all works together, I think it's
really important. That's a good segue to
something I wanted to ask you about,
which is you're famously very in the
weeds on everything that is going on,
all the things that are shipping. You're
very close to the pixels.
I'm curious how that's evolved for you
over time. Like are you still in there
looking at everything that's about to
ship? And what's your just philosophy on
founders having to be involved in the,
let's say, the pixels and the details of
the product? First and foremost, like
yeah, this is what I love to do. Like I
I love building things. I love, you
know, making new products, services for
our community. That that that is like
what drives me. I really really enjoy
that part of the process. So, you know,
it's it's not work to me. It's something
that I really just love doing and love
doing together with our team. And so, I
think for me like that, you know, in
addition to all the great people I get
to work with here at Snap, like the
thing that, you know, wakes me up, you
know, with a smile on my face every
morning, the reason why I'm skipping to
work is cuz I, you know, I am in the
weeds on on what we're building and
shipping to our uh
our community. That That being said,
there are always uh smarter, better,
more talented experts. Uh Uh you know,
working on all the different uh things
that we have going on, but I really do
like staying close to to what we're what
we're creating. I
I I don't think it's relevant just to
founders. I think no matter what type of
company you're running or your role in
the company, staying close to your
customer, staying close to the product
and the way that it's serving your
customer is the fundamentally most
important thing you could possibly do. I
think like I'm I I absolutely subscribe
to like the old school like walk the
floors, talk to your customers, get out
there, and stay in touch with what's
actually happening uh with your service,
with your community, uh with your team.
And and I think that's probably the most
important job that any leader can do in
any company is stay close to their
customer, stay close to their team.
Do you feel like especially for a
consumer and consumer social product,
this is extra important to just be like
extremely in the weeds on everything
that is shipping and say having designed
your design team have to approve
everything. Do you feel like that's
especially important for consumer? I I
don't think it's especially important
for consumer. I think it's especially
important for any company that wants to
deliver great products to their
community, right? La- Companies have
different points of strength, right? And
differentiation, but if you want to, you
know, differentiate on the product
experience, I think it's really
important that leaders stay stay very
close to that. Is there anything
specially look for in the designers you
hire knowing that they're basically
running the show and just approving
everything and just kind of like the
right hand to Evan? Is there anything in
particular you look for to when you're
hiring these designers? Yeah, there's a
couple really important things. Uh first
of all, we make all of our, you know,
hiring decisions just based off
portfolio. So like that's really all we
want to see. Like I really don't care
where you worked or your level of
experience. In fact, most people join
our design team right out of school, uh
you know, not from a big tech company or
or something like that. And really what
I'm focused on is understanding the
portfolio and and I want to see two
things from from the portfolio. The
first is a
really wide range.
And that is the difference between art
and design. So, there are lots of people
who have a very distinct style, right?
They have a very distinct way of
building things and creating things.
That really is art, right? They're
expressing themselves and their own
personal point of view on the world, and
it's can be very beautiful, but it is
not design. Design is really about, you
know, empathizing with your customer,
empathizing with your audience, your
viewer, whoever it is, and then building
something that will really resonates
with them. And And that means you need
to have a an extraordinary amount of
range. You've got to be able to to build
and create things that look totally
different. So, when I'm going through a
portfolio, you know, the first thing I'm
looking for is like, are they building
stuff that all looks the same? Or are
they building things that look really
different, right? That you know,
um
that have been responsive to different
sets of of needs. And that's how I know
that they're a designer and and not just
an artist.
And then, you know, the the the other
thing I want to understand, and you
know, typically, you know, I interview
every designer that joins our our team,
and what I want to understand is why and
the story behind the work that they they
created. So, typically, what I'll do is
just say, "Hey, you know, pick something
in your portfolio, anything you feel
strongly about." I don't you know, you
could love it, hate it, I don't care.
You just have to feel strongly about it.
And just tell me the story of why you
made it and what you learned through
that through that process. And I think,
you know, pretty quickly, you can
understand, you know, someone's uh
someone's process in terms of, you know,
building something or inventing
something. How did they go about it? And
I'm really trying to make sure that we
have people who have different ways of
doing that on our team. One of the
strengths of our design team has been
that people come from lots of different
backgrounds, right? They might come from
3D animation, or they might come from
electrical engineering. And like, that's
a real strength uh to have folks who see
the world differently and have, you
know, totally different sets of skills.
So, as I was preparing for this chat, I
talked a bunch of people that worked at
Snap over the years, and I've I've
integrated their ideas throughout
already. Um but one that came up that I
thought was interesting is I hear that
you spend a lot of time developing young
design talent, and that's a big focus of
yours.
Can you just talk about how you develop
young design talent? Well, I think the
number one way to develop young design
talent is just help them make lots of
stuff and get a lot of feedback from,
you know, whether it's our customers or,
you know, their teammates or, you know,
myself directly. And so, one of the
things that we do that's different at
Snap is, you know, your first day that
you join the design team, you present
work. And it's really, really important
that, you know, the first day that you
show up on the team, you're making
things. And that just sets the tone for
the rest of your, you know, experience
on the design team and growth on the on
the design team because really that's
what we're all about. And so, I think
folks who can get comfortable very
quickly in that velocity of making
things, that's where, you know, the ego
sort of melts away because, you know,
when you're creating a thousand new
ideas, who cares if most of them are not
great ideas? That's totally fine, right?
What we want to get rid of is that sense
of, you know, preciousness that people
have around ideas where they feel like,
"Oh, I've got this one really perfect
great idea, and if people don't love it,
that means that I'm not a great
designer." It's like, "No, that's that's
ridiculous." We we all, you know, need
to just create as many ideas as possible
that will lead us to, you know, some
really great ideas hopefully over time.
And so, I think for young designers,
that establishing that velocity of of
ideation very early on is really, really
important. And then the other thing we
do that I I think is different, although
I don't know, I've never really worked
anywhere else,
you know, is is
we don't allow designers to get to get
stuck on specific products or verticals
for very long. We like to make sure
people are rotating through different
parts of the product to bring new ideas
and fresh perspectives and also to avoid
getting bored. Like if you're a great
designer and you're stuck, you know,
designing the chat experience for 3
years, like, I mean, how boring is that?
It's really exciting, I think, at Snap
to be able to work across all of these,
you know, highly engaged product
services. We have one of the largest
maps in the world. We have this huge,
you know, the biggest augmented reality
platform. Like these are really exciting
opportunities for designers and it's
important that we are rotating them
across, you know, all all of these
different uh products so they're not
getting stuck. I had a Jenny Wan on the
podcast. She's the She was head of
design for Claude and Co-work and she
was a like a director at Figma.
And then she came to Anthropic and moved
to just I see design again and asked her
what's the hardest part of that move and
she said it's just all the crits that
she has to deal with now or just so much
criticism and constant feedback and it's
she forgotten about that part of it. So
it's interesting that's such a core part
of the way you like the thing that
people have to learn essentially and get
good at. Well, and one of the things
that's so important, right, about our
design team and our design culture. One
of the things that we try to do is there
is no gate to showing me work every
week. So there is no you don't like any
idea, it doesn't matter, you know, how
good people think it is, how bad it is,
you can bring it to that design meeting,
get it on the on the list and share your
work and your idea. And that is so
important because I think to your point,
you know, sometimes people over rely on
this critique process and great ideas
get filtered out. And so I think
creating this culture on the team where
like you can bring anything to the
design meeting, there's no, you know,
filtering process. I I think it's just
so important. You mentioned AI, how
designers are shipping code. I have a
friend who works at um
a big tech company and he just said all
the design team there required to ship
like I don't know 10 PRs a month or
something like that or quarter, which is
such a new world.
I guess one is just like how do you
think about designers shipping code? Is
that like just do it if you can or is
there like a requirement sort of thing?
And broadly I'm just curious how AI is
changing the way your team operates.
What are just like a few things you've
that have been impactful in how your
team operates that are AI driven? I
think you can step back. Uh it's
definitely not a requirement to ship
code on the design team, but I think
people are so passionate and curious
about learning new things. I mean, one
of the things, you know, we've always
tried to do on the design team is just
figure it out, right? I remember in the
early days of some of the 3D graphic
stuff that we were trying to do. One of
our team members, you know, had never
done 3D graphics before, and they were
like like, okay, let's just figure it
out, right? So, they took some online
tutorials and like, you know, boom, like
we were off to the races. So, I think
the design team has always been really
flexible in terms of, you know, their
curiosity, learning new things. And so,
I I don't think you have to like push
people or create a requirement or
something like that uh for folks to want
to adopt new tools and and want to, you
know, want to ship code. I think, you
know, the big question now that everyone
and anyone uh thinks they can, you know,
submit a PR is like how we don't break
things at a at a billion, you know, or
nearly a billion user scale, right? That
that's really important. So, I think uh
what we've really tried to do is also
develop AI tools and guardrails to make
it easier for more people to, you know,
participate and submit code, but also
reduce the likelihood uh that, you know,
we're going to have some sort of bug.
So, you know, we've got automated code
review now. We've I think automatically
detected like close to 10,000 bugs at
this point, probably. You know, we've
we've got I we have a system at Snap
where, you know, on the the internal
version of the app, you can shake to
report uh you know, your problem, and
agents now uh you know, debug exactly
what happened, what went wrong, and, you
know, can actually like sug- suggest a a
fix. And I think, you know, in pretty
short order, it'll be implementing the
fix as well, which is pretty crazy. So,
I think, you know, taking a step back,
uh there's so much excitement around the
way that AI is is going to change the
way that companies work. Obviously,
software companies in particular, like
ours, I think, are on the cutting edge
of of the way that AI is changing how
things get built and and and what gets
done. Um we really wanted to bring some
like order to that chaos. And so, the
way that we did that was really by
starting with the jobs to be done for
our community and our advertisers. So,
getting really really basic and, you
know, straightforward on okay,
you know, for Snapchatters, right? Our
jobs to be done, it's as simple as like
get people to download the app, right?
Get them to add their close friends, you
know, get them to, you know, I don't
know, use lenses, something like that.
On the advertiser front, right? It could
be, you know, getting bringing people
into the ad platform, configuring their
campaign, etc. And so, by listing out
all these jobs to be done, you know,
really for the for the community journey
and for advertisers as well, it became
very clear where we could use agents,
where we needed to be very focused in
terms of building cross-functional teams
around those jobs supported by AI tools.
And it's also given us a I think a a
really helpful mechanism to track our
progress against the business outcomes
for each of those those jobs. So, I
think,
you know, for us, trying to, you know,
while while I think in this moment of
time, you certainly want to like, you
know, have a thousand flowers bloom and
people are building agents and
experimenting, I think at the same time
making sure that that we stay focused on
what matters to our community, what
matters to advertisers, is really,
really important. Okay, I want to take a
step back and think about just kind of
reflect back. It's been 15 years since
you've been working on Snap. You
launched it about 15 years ago. I'm
curious just what are some of the
maybe biggest lessons, maybe the hardest
lessons you've learned over the past 15
years, things that you're like, oh, I
didn't realize this as I was starting
this company. You know, I I think it's
hard to comprehend how much the job
changes
over time. I mean, it's really quite
extraordinary to go from, you know, my
job, you know, in the in the early days
with Bobby and I, I was, you know,
helping design the product, but I was
also answering customer support emails.
I was, you know, trying to get our legal
filings sorted out. I was trying to
raise money, right?
As, you know, the company grows and
things evolve, like so much more of the
job is about leadership, right? About
making sure you're really developing
people, selecting the right people to be
on the team, developing the culture,
doing that really, really seriously and
and you know, in some ways creating a
structure that can enforce that, you
know, to have a cohesive culture and and
a vision
around the company. Um you know, it it
becomes about strategy, right? Managing
through, you know, enormous change like
what we're seeing with with artificial
intelligence today, but also, you know,
several years ago managing through the
pandemic or managing through rebuilding
our advertising platform as the
landscape,
you know, changed. So, the job has just
changed so dramatically and I think that
that's part of what's so energizing
about it, what I enjoy so much about it,
but it's also something I like never in
a million years could have anticipated
when we were first first getting
started.
How have you most changed and and I
guess evolved over that course? What's
like a big area that you've improved in?
You know, one of one of the big focus
areas for me was learning how to
communicate more effectively. You know,
both both to our team, but also, you
know, you know, here on a podcast or
with the world. I mean, so much of the
job is about becoming a great
communicator. I remember I I had the
opportunity to meet
President Clinton at one point in the
early days of the company and he was
like, you know, it's very interesting,
you know, being president is really like
being explainer-in-chief.
And your job is actually to just explain
stuff to people and help them make sense
of the world and the company and their
role in it. And
I always thought that was really
interesting and I go back to that a lot.
So much of my job is to like is to
explain things to our company and and,
you know, to our shareholders, to the
world in ways that that really makes
sense and and can inspire folks and and
help us to all move in the in the right
direction. So, I think
communication just becomes such a score
skill and I think in the early days I
was, you know, unnecessarily dismissive
of the really important role of
communication.
For founders that are hearing this and
they're like, okay, I'm going to work on
this. What most helped you level up in
in this space? Is it like coaches? Is it
people around you? Is it just doing it?
You know, just doing it is really the
only way. You know, and I remember that
was really the advice like one of our
board members gave to me because I was
so reluctant. I didn't want to do an
all-hands. I didn't want to do Q&A
uh you know in the early days of the
company. I was like what you know I'll
just send an email. And he's like what
are you doing? Like he's like too bad
Evan. Like this is your job. Uh and I
think that was really really good
advice. Uh and so literally I was like
okay fine. Uh you know this is a core
part of my job and what I need to learn
how to do I'm going to I'm going to
learn to love it. I want to love it. I
want to get up there and you know get in
front of our company and really enjoy
you know answering all these really
tough questions and you know digging
into the business with our team. And now
I I really do. Um you know I've learned
to learn to really enjoy that that
dialogue with our team. And I learn so
much from the questions that folks ask.
And I love that openness. I think it's
just such an important part of our
company and who we are. I had Rahul
Vohra on the podcast a while back the
founder of Superhuman. And he went
through a similar I don't know if this
is what you went through but he went
through a transition where you
loved what he was doing and then ended
up being pushed by VCs and leaders to
like okay you got to do these other
things.
And then like okay I I really don't like
this and I'm going to find a way to do
the thing I really enjoy because that's
going to reflect in so many ways across
the business and help it succeed. Is
that is that something you went through
or just like okay I just want to get
back to the the product and building?
You know I think that's
only partly true if you want to stay in
the CEO job. Like I think the CEO job
has a lot of requirements that are not
necessarily things
you know that that you love to do in the
morning. There's a huge amount of
responsibility that comes along with
being uh CEO. There's a lot of
operational rigor
uh that I think needs to be developed. I
think not every part of the the CEO job
is is glamorous. So I think if you know
if I if I just wanted to to work on
product I would pick a different job at
Snap. But I think because I really like
leading our company and leading the
direction and strategy for the business
and because I see a huge opportunity in
transforming the way that people use you
know computing in the in the future. Uh
you know both through Snapchat but also
uh with with Specs, I think this is the
right role for me
right now. I mean, I certainly I would
spend more time with my family and
probably have more fun on some days if I
was in a different role or, you know,
more focused on design, but I think the
opportunity for a business like ours at
the scale, you know, that we have, it's
it's a, you know, it's a
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for me
and and I, you know, I, you know,
despite its challenges, I do like the
CEO job. So, kind of along those lines,
you put out this letter, I think it was
the end of last year where you described
this coming year as the crucible moment
for Snap. Uh, it's so interesting just
like you guys have a billion monthly
active users. That's just absurd. I
don't think people realize this.
You're making 6 billion a year in
revenue, something like that. One of the
very few social networks that lasts,
that is durable, with like a very uh,
valuable, interesting audience.
On the flip side, the stock hasn't been
killing it. There's like these investors
coming at you trying to tell you to
change all these things.
Uh, I guess just thoughts, reflections,
and what do you think people are are
missing about where this might go?
Well, that's really one of the reasons
why I called this year
a crucible moment. I mean, the the
company's almost at the scale of
entering the Fortune 500, which is
really exciting. It's almost at a
billion monthly active users. Uh, it's
about to launch Specs after, you know,
12 years of investment in this future
computing platform. You know, but at the
same time, it's it's still not net
income profitable, for example, because
we've been investing so heavily in the
future and make making the choice to do
that. And so, I think this is the year
that we have to prove that Snapchat, you
know, can be a really strong, profitable
business that it continues,
you know, to grow in both in terms of
the reach of our audience and and their
engagement you know, with with new
products, whether it's, you know, topic
chats or spotlight or, you know, we I
think we got 200 million people playing
games every month on Snapchat now, so
gaming is becoming
a big part of of you know, the
engagement driver, you know, engagement
drivers on Snapchat. And the reason why
that's so important is that it's going
to be very hard for us to win long-term
in Specs without a really solid
foundation. Um, and so I think we need
to demonstrate that, you know, after a
couple years of rebuilding our ad
platform, rebuilding our go-to-market
efforts can really accelerate in the
growth of the the small medium customer
part of our business, which has grown
really rapidly uh, for us that like this
year we have a really solid foundation
to launch the next chapter uh, in the
company's uh, history. So it's a real
it's a real turning point uh, for Snap
that's really exciting, but it's
definitely an all hands on deck uh,
moment uh, for the company.
You had a really interesting way of
describing Snap in the market. You
called Snap the middle child.
Talk about just what what that means.
Yeah, I think one of the things that's
so uh, funny about our service is that
while we're very very large in terms of
the scale of our audience, in terms of
the scale of our business,
you know, we're much larger than a a
Pinterest or a Reddit for example. We're
also way smaller than Meta and Google.
And so we occupy this very interesting
uh, sort of middle position in the in
the market. And I think, you know, that
comes with a lot of benefits cuz we're
big enough, we have enough scale to do
really interesting things, but it also
comes uh, with the challenges of, you
know, being overshadowed in some cases
by our older brothers and maybe, you
know, sometimes the the younger uh, the
younger kids are getting more uh,
attention. And so I think again, as in
this crucible moment, part of defining
who we are as a company uh, and and who
we are as a business. And and, you know,
I think one of the things that will play
an important role in that is getting
Specs out and, you know,
uh, to to consumers. Because I think
right now, we've talked so long about
the role that Specs will play in the
world. We've, you know, worked on
developing the platform for so long, but
without something that you can really
uh, you know, play with and hang on to
and and use yourself, it's hard to
really understand, you know, the next
chapter of
Snap's Snap's journey. So, I think you
know, one of the the biggest challenges
that middle children face is defining
themselves, right? Standing out from
their older siblings and and younger
siblings. And so, I think this is a this
is a moment and a year when Snap is
really going to define itself.
And I'm really excited about that.
Speaking of middle child, you have a
number of children.
And I'm curious, this is a whole whole
going a whole different direction.
What's your just pol- like policy on
screens and devices? You know, having
built Snapchat
and then also Specs, just how do you how
do you think about devices and your
kids? Well, we've got a a real range.
We've got four boys, two, six, seven,
and 15. So, we approach it very
differently for all the kids at
different ages. For the two-year-old,
it's like zero screen time. We really
just, you know, want to you know,
essentially read with him and play,
you know, explore outside and and those
sorts of things, but but not really
focus on on screens unless he is getting
a haircut because he really struggles
with getting his haircut. So, when when
he gets a haircut, he he really loves
Bobcat tractors, you know, the the those
four-wheel sort of Bobcat tractors. And
he loves to watch YouTube videos of
people driving Bobcat tractors around.
So, when he gets his haircut, he can
watch people drive Bobcat tractors. But
other than that, no no screen time. For
for the six- and seven-year-olds, you
know, they they are I would say
infrequent movie watchers, but other
than that, again, you know, we don't
give them phones or anything like that.
In fact, it was really fun for, you
know, over over the holidays for
Christmas, I gave them that new I think
Palmer Lucky has a startup where they
are sort of remaking Game Boys.
Yeah, I I have one of those. Yeah, it's
really fun. Yeah, so actually
Yeah, my retro. So, the the TV PN guys
gave me two of them for our for our kids
for for Christmas. And so, um, they get
to spend a little time on those in
addition to watching movies every now
and then. And then, you know, with a
15-year-old, it's he he we he is uh all
in on on technology, whether he's using
it for school or whether he's using it
to talk with his friends or using
Snapchat. So, you know, it really
depends on on kids and where they're at
developmentally, but I think for us like
that that's been our approach. Is there
anything you're doing with AI and your
kids? Like maybe even the older one just
like AI education sort of tools,
ChatGPT? Yeah, it's so funny. At the at
the breakfast table the other morning
actually, I was just asking them a lot
about like how are their teachers
talking about AI at school? How are they
thinking about integrating in the
curriculum? Are you guys, you know,
using AI all the time? Um, and and I
think the answer so far has been not
really. Uh, you know, which I think is
is interesting, but certainly I you
know, our kids play around with it um at
home. There's they, you know, are are
beta testers for Specs, which is really
fun. I really love uh you know, using
the glasses together with them and and
some of the really cool uh experiences
there. And you know, Flynn, who's the
eldest, is probably most fluent um in
using AI tools. But what I think is so
fun, you know, as a kid
we I think all of us as as kids, right,
are incredibly imaginative, right? We're
all born creative. We have all these
amazing ideas to share. And I think
what's so cool about AI is how, you
know, in an in nearly an instant, you
can take any idea you have and and make
something. And so, I think that's so
empowering for for young people. It's
certainly an experience I want our uh
our kids to have, and I think it's going
to be so important to deeply integrate
into the way that, you know, education
works today. Yeah, it's interesting.
Snapchat has always been really good at
allowing you to create and make feel
like a superstar. Just create all these
really crazy
lenses and filters and all these things.
And it's interesting AI, just like by
coding, just
unleashes so much creativity. And kids
are so imaginative already.
Absolutely.
>> So interesting. Okay. Well, to close out
our conversation, I've got a couple I'm
going to take us to a couple corners,
recurring corners on the podcast. One is
AI corner.
So, the question is what's what's a way
you use AI in your, let's say, work
that allow that is just interesting that
might be interesting for other people to
to learn from. Uh well, one of the
things that I really love about AI, you
know, in
at Snap I've got access to all of our
dashboards and documents and data. And
so, you know, I built we we have Glean
that integrates uh you know, all of this
data for me. And I built just an agent
that will go and comb through everything
that's happening in the company uh and
let me know what's up, what I need to
focus on, what I need to catch. And
every now and then I really catches
something that I, you know, hadn't
hadn't realized or needed to focus a bit
more on. And so, I think we're just so
fortunate to have so much structured
data in our company. I mean, you know,
for our leaders they also send me you
know, every week kind of the three
things from the week and three things
looking ahead. And so, I can like very,
very easily get a sense for, you know,
the hotspots in the company, the
priority areas. And combined with all of
our dashboards and and metrics about the
way that people are using our service, I
feel like I have a a really good sense
um for for what's happening in in the
company. So, I think, you know, what's
been most exciting for me in in terms of
AI uh is is that it's enabling I think
the type of leadership structure that
I've always wanted, which is, you know,
very flat, uh you know, very
fast-moving. Um and I think, you know,
having an AI co-pilot
to to help me do that has been a been a
big deal. And that agent was uh you
built it in Glean? Is that where it
lives? Yeah, that I mean that that I've
that I've done uh in Glean, which is is
great. Obviously, you can build all
sorts of stuff in in Claude. But Glean
for us is the most secure way to access
all of our different documents and
dashboards and things like that. Is
there anything interesting in your AI
stack? There's um sounds like Glean,
Claude. Is there anything else that's um
that's interesting maybe some people may
not think about? I think one of the
things that we're thinking a lot about
is just taking the entire workflow um
and enabling it with an agent. So, for
example, uh you know, taking a product
idea and with the our go-to-market
agent, taking that product idea, writing
the spec, making identifying the
relevant uh folks who need to be
involved in sign-offs and understanding
it, right? Actually helping to do the
the risk analysis on the product, right?
From a legal trust and safety
perspective, writing the go-to-market
materials like the blog, etc. We're
working now on on actually building the
visuals as well, but doing that in one
shot, uh you know, is is really wild.
So, I think there's all sorts of
examples like that across the company uh
in terms of the way that agents can play
a a really massive um role in changing
the way that we work and that that's
connected to, you know, how we think
about those jobs to be done, right? So,
if we can uh define a job to be done
clearly enough that we can build an
agent to do it, uh that that can really
create a lot of a lot of lift. What do
you Where do you build this agent?
What's the What platform do you use? Uh
we've been using Claude to do a lot of
the the work um you know, across Snap,
yeah. Sweet. Okay. Uh I'll take us to
another recurring corner in the podcast,
contrarian corner.
What's something that you believe that a
lot of other people don't believe?
What's kind of a contrarian take about
anything that comes to mind? Well, I I
think for me, like we're we're in an
industry where so much of the
conversation is focused on uh technology
and I think maybe my contrarian point of
view or my contrarian angle is like
humanity is far more important, uh you
know, than than the technological
developments largely because humanity
dictates how technology is adopted,
right? I think, for example, right now
people are massively underestimating the
role that human adoption and human
comfort, uh you know, with advances in
artificial intelligence will determine
its deployment, right? I think
technology leaders think that folks will
just blindly adopt uh new technology as
it comes out and I think we're going to
enter a period of time where there's
going to be a huge amount of societal
pushback on a lot of the changes that
are coming uh with AI. And so, I think a
lot of our focus as an industry, but
more broadly in the world, needs to be
putting humanity first, right? Making
sure that the tools uh we're developing
are advancing humanity's goals, um you
know, in addition to uh business goals.
And you know, I think in our industry at
least that that's a bit contrarian.
Yeah, and just so we don't need to go
too down this path, but I it's so hard
for the AI labs, I think, to on the one
hand be like, "Okay, this is really
dangerous if it gets much smarter, and
we need people to know this cuz this is
happening and moving quickly." On the
other hand, how do you not just freak
everyone out and make everyone so afraid
of where things are going? It's like,
"Well, how do you What do you do? What's
the right thing for them to do?" And and
because of all that all that doom and
gloom, it's like I'm sure you've seen
these surveys. AI is like below ice in
terms of popularity and and I like below
like Iran. It's like
and this isn't going great. I don't
know. I don't know what I'd do if I were
a lab. And I love I guess that's like a
a benefit of Snapchat is it makes like
you guys have been in AI from for a very
long time, and it shows you the
playfulness of it all and you know, it
doesn't have to be that serious.
Anyway, with that, Evan, we've reached
our very exciting lightning round. I've
got five questions for you. Are you
ready?
Let's give it a shot.
Okay.
What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people? Gosh, well, you know what I just
finished was the first 50 years of Apple
by David Pogue. I thought it was great.
I would recommend the first half because
you know, he interviews like 150 early
Apple team members, and it the stories
are just great, and there's a lot of
learnings in there. Um so, I really
enjoyed I really enjoyed that. I think
uh what else have I read recently? Uh
there's a a great book maybe relevant
for this particular moment called The
End of the World Is Just the Beginning,
um which actually touches a lot on the
vulnerability uh global shipping. Like
the global economy is built on global
shipping,
um and it sort of predicts a world where
the US was going to have a much harder
time securing the global waterways,
uh and what does that mean for the way
that we build things and organize
ourselves as a society.
>> That sounds quite familiar these days.
Quite relevant for the given moment.
Yeah.
Awesome. Is there a recent movie or TV
show you have really enjoyed? I mean, I
feel like this is so typical, but like I
I loved Marty Supreme. I thought that
movie was off the charts. Uh and I I was
like I
I don't know. I'm I'm not used to
watching stuff that extreme. You know
what I mean? I could I could be I was
like on the edge of my seat the whole
time. It's like a full-throttle
movie experience. Highly recommend.
I've not seen it yet. I keep hearing
amazing things. It's It's very intense.
Yeah. Okay. I'm ready for that.
Next question. Do you have a Is there a
product you recently discovered that you
really love? Could be an app, could be
clothing, gadget, anything. Oh, I think
through our kids right now I'm just
rediscovering uh Pokémon, which is so
fun. It's so great. And I think uh you
know, there's so much art to it and
personality and character and uh
what an amazing brand and franchise. And
I think like I you know, my general view
is like there's just so so much they
could do to grow
uh you know, that that IP and and
franchise if at least if our kids are
any indication. First mention of Pokémon
in the lightning round.
Next question. Do you have a favorite
life motto
that you often come back to in work or
in life? You have two ears and one
mouth. Use them in that proportion.
Nice.
Final question. Uh you guys have created
many lenses over the years. I'm curious
if you have just like a favorite lens,
like all-time favorite, and then
all-time least favorite, the worst. Uh I
mean, all-time favorite is probably the
vomiting rainbow. I think like that just
brought so much joy uh to so many
people, which is great. Least favorite,
probably like the old lens. I don't
know. Or face swap. I just Oh, right.
>> Those are intense. Yeah. Wow, flashback.
And you guys were the first to do that,
right? Yeah, I mean, and that was all
that that was all early days real-time
machine learning transformation on the
device. You know, like that was like
pretty cutting edge at the time. I mean,
I don't think people realize that Bobby
created our Gen AI lab like 10 years
ago, a decade ago, something like that.
What a time, man. The face-swapping era.
Yeah.
The early use of generative AI in
action.
>> Wow, I forgot that was another
innovation. And then there's like
businesses and apps that just said they
built that as a whole business. And then
all all went away. As far as I can tell.
Wow, man. That was a good time.
All right. Well, Evan, is there anything
else you want to share, anything else
you want to leave listeners with before
we before I let you go? I think it's
such an it's such an exciting time.
Obviously, I think there's a lot of
concern about the way that artificial
intelligence is going to change our
society, but I think there's so much to
be optimistic about in terms of the way
that computing can become more human,
and that's really what we're focused on.
So, really excited to share more about
all the stuff we've been working on
later this year. Evan, thank you so much
for being here. My pleasure. Thanks,
Lenny. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review, as that really
helps other listeners find the podcast.
You can find all past episodes or learn
more about the show at
lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.